One of the most precious gifts
we enjoy as humans is the gift of sight.
Sight is possible because of the way
our eyes and our brain work together.
The complexity of our eyes
and their connectivity with our brain
give strong evidence of a very wise Designer.
And that Designer
is clearly identified for us in the Bible.
Please open your Bibles
to the book of Psalms,
and we’re going to look at Psalm 94:9.
It reads this way:
“The One who made the ear, can he not hear?
The One who formed the eye,
can he not see?”
So Jehovah created the eye
and our ability to see.
And we’re very grateful for that.
But he didn’t make it
just so that we see in one color,
just so that we can move around and work
and function safely and efficiently.
He gave us the ability to see
a wide variety of colors
that enrich our lives.
We very much appreciate the brilliant colors
of butterflies, birds, fishes, and flowers.
What is your favorite color?
Is it red, blue, green?
Or you may say,
‘You’ve only given me three choices.’
That’s true.
How many color possibilities
are there that we can see?
And how do our eyes
and our brain work together
to produce this variety of colors?
And what role
does light play in this process?
These questions will be answered
in the following video.
And please take note of how all
of this wonderful design by Jehovah
reassures us that our Creator
wants us to rejoice.
What is color?
It’s how we perceive wavelengths of light.
Objects that reflect all wavelengths
of visible light appear white.
When an object reflects
only some wavelengths,
we see color.
Cells in our eye detect light
and send signals to our brain.
We have three kinds of color-sensing cells:
those that detect red,
green,
and blue.
How do we perceive other colors?
Mixing red, green, and blue light
changes the color we see.
This flower is yellow because it reflects
red and green light into our eye.
With just three kinds of color receptors,
we can distinguish some ten million colors.
Color triggers our emotions.
Blue and green can calm us.
Red and orange can excite!
In the Bible, descriptions that include
color help us learn.
Is there any doubt
that God gave us
the gift of color for our joy?
“I put my rainbow in the cloud,
“and it will serve as a sign of the covenant
between me and the earth.”
How grateful we are that Jehovah
gave us this ability
to see a variety of colors!
And color has an impact on our emotions.
For example, the color red
—it’s a very highly visible color,
and it’s filled with energy.
Sometimes it’s associated with danger.
And red, it’s said,
can actually make us breathe faster
and even raise our blood pressure.
But on the other hand,
green is a very calming color.
It’s very tranquil,
and that’s why when we look
at a beautiful green garden
or a beautiful hillside,
why, we feel very relaxed.
Besides affecting our emotions,
Jehovah has used color in the Scriptures
to teach us Bible truths
and to help us remember them.
To illustrate,
what do you think of
when I mention the following:
a white horse, a red horse,
a black horse, a pale horse?
Well, right away your minds
went to the book of Revelation, didn’t they?
And you understand
what these four horses picture.
The white horse pictures Jesus Christ
as the enthroned King,
riding in righteous warfare;
the red horse pictures the bloody warfare
among the nations in these last days;
the black horse, stark famine;
and the pale horse
(we’re quite familiar
with these days, aren’t we?),
the pale horse pictures dreaded disease
—pandemics leading to death.
So we see how Jehovah used color
to teach us Bible truths
and to help us remember them.
There’s another way
that Jehovah has used scriptures
and color
to teach us about him.
An example of this is at Ezekiel 1:26-28,
where Jehovah gives Ezekiel
a beautiful, brilliant view of his throne.
And among all this glory,
there is a beautiful rainbow.
And what does a rainbow picture?
The rainbow denotes peacefulness,
calmness, tranquility
—indicating what?
That with all of his dynamic energy,
Jehovah is a calm, peaceful God.
And that’s very reassuring to us,
and we are endeared to him.
Now, earlier we talked
about the association of light with color.
And in the Scriptures,
Jehovah uses light to depict something
about how he increases
our understanding of Bible truths.
At Proverbs 4:18, the Bible says:
“But the path of the righteous
is like the bright morning light
that grows brighter and brighter
until full daylight.”
Now, this applies spiritually,
but we can understand it literally, can’t we?
If you’re taking
an early morning walk in the countryside
and the sun has not come up yet,
you can see things
but you’re not quite sure what you see.
And perhaps you
don’t even know what color they are.
But when the sun comes up,
well, you see clearly
what you were looking at:
a beautiful white fence, a green pasture,
and a big, stately red barn in the distance.
And now your appreciation
for your walk has been enhanced.
Well, likewise,
the Bible tells us at 2 Corinthians 4:6:
“‘Let the light shine out of darkness,’
“and he has shone on our hearts
to illuminate them
with the glorious knowledge of God.”
Jehovah provides his servants
with spiritual enlightenment,
and that helps us to understand
and deeply appreciate Bible truths even more.
And as a result, we understand them,
we’re motivated to apply them,
and this draws us closer
to our heavenly Father.
Well, how thankful we are
that Jehovah created us
with the ability to see color!
It enriches our lives, touches our emotions,
helps us to learn and remember Bible truths,
helps us to understand
our heavenly Father better.
And the light that he provides
gives us a progressive improvement
in our Bible understanding.
How thankful we are for the gift
that Jehovah has given us to see color!
It is strong evidence
that he really wants us
to enjoy life to the full.
And now let’s give our attention
to Brother Robert Luccioni,
who will now present
the next talk of this symposium:
“Creation Proves That Jehovah Wants Us
to Rejoice
—Our Well-Designed Bodies.”